>> Brian Holt: Let's go ahead and do
a project, it's gonna be heavily based on
what we did before with like the adding
files to a Mongo database and
the volumes project that we did and
very similar to something like that.
It's now we're going to be using Docker
compose to manage the Mongo database and
the networking, and we're also gonna
add a front end using React, Parcel,
and then Nginx ultimately to serve it.
So we'll have three services, an API,
the web front end service, and
the database service.
Now you and I could code this together.
It's not a particularly interesting
project in the sense that I don't think
it's very interesting.
So here in the project files for
Complete Intro to Containers v2,
there's a directory called docker-compose.
We're just gonna copy that
entire project over and
then we'll give a little overview
of what's in the project.
So I'm gonna go to my desktop again and
I'm gonna copy -R and
personal,
>> Brian Holt: And
that is containers-projects.
And we want the docker-compose.
And we'll just call it docker-compose
again because that's easy.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna go into docker-compose.
So, again,
I just copied this directory right here,
you can actually just do it
directly in the directory there.
That's totally fine.
Okay, and let's go through
a little tour of the code here.
Close that.
>> Brian Holt: We'll talk about the
docker-compose file here in just a second,
but in the interim, I just wanna show
you what's actually in the project.
This index file,
it's a slightly modified version of that
Mongo app that we were looking at before.
One of the things is we did add CORS
because we're gonna be listening on two
different ports and Firefox and
Chrome don't like that.
You get CORS errors when you do that.
But beyond that,
I think this is almost exactly the same.
Okay, same package.json except we
added a CORS handler for Fastify.
So that's the API service.
Nothing interesting there and
then the web service.
You can see this is just a parcel
project built with React and react-dom.
Okay, there's a little Docker file
here that just it's a two stage build.
It builds a node and
then it serves it from nginx.
So, nothing too interesting there.
There's an index file, there's a style
file, and there's a web.jsx file.
And this is just a little React app that
has a button that every time you click
the button, it calls the API, and
then it gets back from the API whatever,
however many items are in the database.
Okay, so
that is all of the code that we're doing.
I even committed the dist directory for
you so
that you don't actually have to go and
build the project yourself.
But if you wanted to,
all you do is npm run build.
That's it, okay.
So let's talk about docker-compose now.
We now have three services in here.
As you might imagine,
a service is like micro-services,
like the thing that Netflix
cursed us all with.
That's what all of this is,
we have API Which is going to be that
API service that we talked to about
the build API that's referring to the this
is coming from the API directory.
So when if I ask docker-compose
to build my project for me,
it knows where to find the Docker file,
which is going to be in the API directory.
I'm telling it to expose port 8080 and
make them available locally for me.
So if I want to call the API directly,
I can and it's saying links db.
This is basically just saying that it
talks to the db service on the network.
So make that available to the API service,
and
then we're giving it the environmental
variable of how to connect to Mongo.
The database service is really just like,
hey,
just run mongo:7 directly off Docker Hub,
no modifications.
That's all that does.
And then the web service,
build from web this is the API_URL.
And the port's nginx by
default exposes port 80 but
we wanna make it available on port 8081.
Yeah, question.
>> Speaker 1: I assume there
is an implied network created for
these containers by
using docker-compose.
>> Brian Holt: Which docker-compose
totally manages for you.
>> Speaker 1: Why is there no
links from the web Web to the API?
>> Brian Holt: Because it's all
done through your browser, right?
So the nginx container is not
speaking to the API, right?
Nginx doesn't call the API,
your browser calls the API.
So we have to expose this
because Because your front end
client is gonna call api 8080, right?
But if they did, right, let's say if
you had some sort of heartbeat or
something like that,
you would have to do that, right?
But there's no network traffic
between the two of them,
I guess that's the sum of the story.
Whereas these two do have network
traffic between each other.
So, let's run it, right?
We're gonna come into our CLI, and
I'm gonna say docker compose up --build.
You do need the --build or
it's just going to assume it's like,
you already built these for me.
So I almost always end up putting
it on there because I usually
want it to build it for me.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see now it
is running multiple containers here,
where is the.
So, there it is.
Okay, so you can see web-1,
this is all the logs coming from Nginx,
right?
Web being the name of the container
that we called it, right?
And -1 being the first replica of there,
because you can actually tell us like,
hey, please run ten of these for
me or run 100 of these for me, right?
We're just going to say run
one of each at the moment.
We have db-1, as you might imagine,
that's the Mongo-1 that's taken care of.
And then somewhere down here we have API,
which I'm sure it'll be somewhere.
Maybe one I'm sure if we
make a request to it.
localhost 8081.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, right there, API.
I have this attached to Yvonne, so
I've been running this for
a little bit already.
That's why I have 14 counts in here.
But if I click Add,
it should add new things to my database.
So now I have 28 records in my database.
>> Brian Holt: And that's connecting
the API to the back end right.
So if I look at my network traffic here,
it is connecting to localhost:8080 and
you can see,
does this tell you that
it's coming from Fastify.
Nope, it doesn't but
you can see that that access control
header is coming in that we did.
And then if we look at this,
we can definitely tell that this is coming
from Nginx, It should tell you that.
>> Brian Holt: Right there, document.
Yeah, Server from Nginx.
>> Brian Holt: Another kind of
cool thing about this is like,
because I didn't expose Mongo, Mongo's not
technically on the public network, right?
It's enclosed into my Docker network.
So in theory, you could get into the API
service and then use that to call Mongo,
but It's not available on
the public Internet, which is cool.
It's only available on my local Mongo or
sorry,
on my local Docker network,
just for funsies.
I'm going to stop this and
it'll take just a second.
What if we wanted to have more
than one container running, right?
That's one of the advantages of containers
that it's really easy to scale them up and
scale them down because they're cattle,
right?
They're easy to replicate.
I did not write the API service in
such a way that it's easy to scale, so
we're not gonna scale that one.
You could say docker-compose up and
then I can say --scale web=10, and
this will create ten of my web service.
>> Brian Holt: And I probably the same
thing here I'm probably listening on
the same port.
I am listening to the same port.
Yeah, this won't work at the moment
because I've specifically
tied it to one port and
I don't have something in front of it.
So that's actually not gonna work but
you probably could do DB maybe.
Yeah, so look at this.
I now have db-3, I have db-9, right?
And so I actually have of ten my
Mongo running in the background.
So if I say docker ps at the moment, you
can see I have, does it tell me the names?
Where is the names?
>> Brian Holt: It doesn't,
but that's fine.
You can see I have the DB there, but all
these different ones, yeah, right there,
docker compose web, docker compose db-3,
docker compose db-9, db-7.
So Docker compose does have
the ability to scale up and
scale down as well with those flags.
>> Speaker 2: With the scale are those
fully individual Mongo instances?
So it's everything in that
Mongo instance every time.
>> Brian Holt: That's something based on
your configuration you can do things
that are like striping and
sharding and things like that.
I think by default,
I haven't set up anything right.
I didn't give it any configuration.
So my guess is that there are 100%,
one to one redundant.
So you'd have one primary which I
think if I remember how Mongo works at
It's done by election, so they're
gonna elect their own primary node and
then everything else would
be a secondary node.
I don't know,
Mongo has eventual consistency, so
eventually you might be able to
send writes to secondaries and
they'll propagate it to the primary and
then it'll propagate back.
But it's been a while
since I've used Mongo.
I work at a database company,
so I tend to use mine.
[LAUGH] And before that,
I worked at a database company, so
I used to use that one.
But when I was at my first company,
we used a lot of Mongo, and
then Reddit, we used MySQL.
So yeah, it's been a while since
I've used Mongo professionally.
So hopefully you're seeing some
of the value of docker-compose.
In particular, I showed you how to do like
dev containers and all that kind of stuff.
You can put a Docker
compose in there as well.
So let's say your particular development
environment requires a database and
a couple of services running.
Docker compose can handle all of that for
you for
your local development
environments as well.
But when I'm writing stuff that
requires multiple things running,
I always use Docker compose.
It's a very,
very useful feature for Docker.